# hw02

## 3.1
What shift direction and number of one-bit shifts will divide an unsigned value by 8?


## 3.2
What is the shortest sequence of shift, add, and subtract operation applied to $$x$$ that will produce:

**(a)** $$21\times{x}$$?

**(b)** $$57\times{x}$$?

**(c)** $$100\times{x}$$?

**(d)** $$188\times{x}$$?


## 3.3
Consider a 12-bit fixed-point real number in 6.6 format. What is:

**(a)** The largest positive value in decimal? In binary?

**(b)** The largest negative value in decimal? In binary?

**(c)** The smallest (nonzero) positive value in decimal? In binary?

**(d)** The smallest negative value in decimal? In binary?


## 3.4
Give both the 8-bit binary product and its decimal equivalent produced by multiplying the two 4-bit numbers $$0110_2$$ and $$1011_2$$ using:

**(a)** Unsigned multiplication

**(b)** Signed multiplication


## 3.5
Overflow during multiplication of two $$n$$-bit integers is often defined as a product that exceeds the range of representation available with $$n$$ bits. Suppose $$n$$ is $$8$$ and one operand has the value of $$100$$. Give two values for the other operand that differs by $$1$$, such that one product overflows and the other does not.


## 3.6
Multiply the following two 16-bit fixed-point signed real numbers together and convert the result into another 16-bit fixed-point signed real number:


## 3.7
Suppose you need to divide a 32-bit 2’s complement integer variable by a constant, but your CPU has no divide instruction.

**(a)** What kind of divisor values allows you to use an arithmetic right shift?

**(b)** How do you determine how many bit positions to shift the dividend?

**(c)** If shifted, what kind of dividend values causes the answer be off by one?


## 3.8
Assume that a divisor is such that division cannot be done by a simple arithmetic right shift so that you must use reciprocal multiplication instead.

**(a)** Does this method always produce the same quotients as an integer divide instruction?

**(b)** How do you determine the integer value of the constant multiplier?

**(c)** Multiplying two 32-bit numbers produces a 64-bit product. What subset of these bits holds the integer quotient?

**(d)** Reciprocal multiplication sometimes produces a result that is not as accurate as that of a true division. When will reciprocal multiplication produce the correct integer quotient?


## 3.9
Suppose you multiply two 32-bit numbers using an integer multiply instruction that produces a 64-bit double-length product. Assume that one number is a 32-bit integer, and the other is a $$16.16$$ fixed-point real.

**(a)** How many bits hold the integer portion of the product?

**(b)** How many bits hold the fractional portion of the product?


## 3.10
Reproduce all the steps in the example of Section 3.3.4 using the values $$-2.5_{10}$$ and $$-1.75_{10}$$.
