# hw03

## 4.1
True / False

**(a)** Compilers generate more instructions to evaluate `x & (1 << 5)` than for `x & 32`.

**(b)** The C expression `&a[5]` is a constant.

**(c)** The ANSIC standard requires signed integers to use the 2’s-complement representation.

**(d)** Incrementing a pointer to a long changes the number it holds by $$1$$.

**(e)** In C, the value of `‘A’+3` is `‘D’`

**(f)** In C, the value produced by a Boolean operator is $$0$$ if false and $$$$ if true.

**(g)** The value of `!x` is $$0$$ iff the value of `x` is $$1$$.

**(h)**  If “`x`” is an unsigned int, then the expression `x > -1` is always true.

**(i)** The statement `c = a + b` has overflowed iff:
	`(c<0 && a>0 && b>0) || (c>0 && a<00 && b<0)` is true.


## 4.2
Give the number of bytes contained in each of the following data types:

**(a)** `char`

**(b)** `short`

**(c)** `long`

**(d)** `long long`


## 4.3
Give the maximum values (expressed as decimal integers, not as powers of $$2$$) that can be held in each of the following data types.

**(a)** `unsigned char`

**(b)** `unsigned short int`

**(c)** `unsigned long int`


## 4.4
Give the range of 2’s-complement values (expressed as decimal integers, not as powers of $$2$$) that can be held in each of the following data types.)

**(a)** `signed char`

**(b)** `signed short int`

**(c)** `signed long int`


## 4.5
What is the hex (base $$16$$) value of each of the following expressions:

**(a)** `(unsigned char) 0x12345678`

**(b)** `(short) ((signed char) 0xFF)`

**(c)** `(short) ((unsigned char) 0xFF)`


## 4.6
Given the macro defined below, show how each of the following usages would be expanded:
```c
#define  REM(a, b)  a % b
```


**(a)** `REM(5, 2)`

**(b)** `REM(5+2, X)`

**(c)** `REM(5, X-2)`


## 4.7
Define a macro called `BIT(x, n)` that expands into an expression whose value is exactly $$0$$ or $$1$$, corresponding to the value of the bit $$n$$ of $$x$$.


## 4.8
Define a C macro named “`SQUARE`” that will produce the proper result in all four of the following possible situations:
```c
x = SQUARE(y);
x = SQUARE(SQUARE(y-2));
x = SQUARE(y - 2);
x = SQUARE(5 + SQUARE (y-2));
```


## 4.9
Define a macro called “`SHL`” with two operands. The macro should expand into an expression that reliably computes a value corresponding to a left shift of its first operand by the number of bit positions specified by its second operand. The content of the operands must not be modified.


## 4.10
What values are left in the variables after executing the following C code:
```c
unsigned char u;
signed char s;
u = (unsigned char) -128;
s = (signed char) +128;
```


## 4.11
11. Give the decimal value of each of the following expressions:

**(a)** ~!5

**(b)** !~5

**(c)** ~6+1

**(d)** 6 && 2

**(e)** 6 & 2

**(f)** 6 && –2

**(g)** 6 & –2

**(h)** 3 | 5

**(i)** 3 || 5

**(j)** !–3

**(k)** ~–3

**(l)** !(0)

**(m)** ~0

**(n)** !!13

**(o)** 3 << 4

**(p)** 60 >> 2

**(q)** ~~13

**(r)** 3 ^ 5

**(s)** 3 & ~5


## 4.12


## 4.13
Give the 8-bit binary value that remains in the `unsigned char` “x” after executing the indicated line of code:

| num | Initial Value of "x" | Line of Code |
| :-: | :------------------: | :----------: |
| **(a)** | $$1110\:0101_2$$ | `x |= (1 << 4);` |
| **(b)** | $$1101\:1001_2$$ | `x &= ~(1 << 6);` |
| **(c)** | $$0111\:1010_2$$ | `x ^= (1 << 5);` |
| **(d)** | $$1010\:1010_2$$ | `x = (x >> 3) & 0x0F;` |
| **(e)** | $$0000\:1111_2$$ | `x = ~x;` |
| **(f)** | $$0000\:1111_2$$ | `x = !x;` |
| **(g)** | $$0000\:0000_2$$ | `x ||= 0x20;` |
| **(h)** | $$1111\:1111_2$$ | `x &&= 0xF0;` |



## 4.14
