# hw04

## 5.1.
Which interconnction relationship is incorrect?

**(a)**	I/O – MEM – CPU

**(b)**	MEM – CPU – I/O

**(c)**	CPU – I/O – MEM


## 5.2
Which part of the computer puts information on the Address Bus?

**(a)**	Main Memroy

**(b)**	CPU

**(c)**	ALU


## 5.3
How many address lines are required for a memory containing a total of:

**(a)** 256 kB

**(b)**	2 MB

**(c)**	4 GB


## 5.4
Fill in the blanks with one of IR, ALU, PC, ACC, MEMORY, FETCH PHASE, or EXECUTE PHASE:

**(a)**	Data is stored in the [...].

**(b)**	Programs are stored in the [...].

**(c)**	To be executed, an instruction is loaded into the [...].

**(d)**	The address of an instruction to be executed is held in [...].

**(e)**	Instructions are retrieved during the [...].

**(f)**	Instructions are interpreted during the [...].

**(g)**	Arithmetic operations occur in the [...].

**(h)**	Temporary intermediate results are held in the [...].


## 5.5
The fetch phase is preceded by the [...] phase.


## 5.6
The fetch phase is followed by the [...] phase.


## 5.7
The instruction register (IR) is loaded during the [...] phase.


## 5.8
Computation performed by an instruction occurs during the [...] phase.


## 5.9
In the ARM architecture, how many bytes are there in:

**(a)** a half word?

**(b)** A double word?


## 5.10
Considering address alignment, what is the worst-case time required to fetch a 4-byte operand from a memory with 60-nsec cycle time and a data bus that is 16 bits wide?


## 5.11
If the data bus connecting the CPU and memory is 4 bytes wide, how many memory cycles are required to read each of the following from memory?

**(a)** A 16-bit operand read from decimal address 5

**(b)** A 16-bit operand read from decimal address 15

**(c)** A 32-bit operand read from decimal address 10

**(d)** A 32-bit operand read from decimal address 20


## 5.12
Consider the partial view of a 32-bit memory and decimal addressses for an ARM processor shown below:

| addr[3] | addr[2] | addr[1] | addr[0] |
| :-----: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----: |
| address 111 | address 110 | address 109 | address 108 |
| address 107 | address 106 | address 105 | address 104 |
| address 103 | address 102 | address 101 | address 100 |
| address 99 | address 98 | address 97 | address 96 |

**(a)**	Shade the word whose address is 102.

**(b)**	What is the address of the most significant byte of the word at address 102?

**(c)** How many memory cycles are required to read the word at address 102?

**(d)** How many memory cycles are required to read the half word at address 102?


## 5.13
In a computer that uses little-endian format which byte of a 16-bit word has the higher address?

**(a)**	The least significant byte

**(b)**	The most significant byte


## 5.14
In a computer that uses little-endian format, if the 2 bytes of a 16-bit word are at addresses 100 and 101, then what is the address of the entire 16-bit word?


## 5.15
Consider a computer that uses little-endian numbering. If a 32-bit operand resides at a decimal address $$N$$, what is the address of:

**(a)** The most significant byte

**(b)** The 16-bit operand corresponding to the most significant half


## 5.16
If bytes within a word are assigned addresses that increase from the most to least significant byte, the computer is said to use:

**(a)** Little-endian numbering

**(b)** Big-endian numbering


## 5.17
In a computer that uses little-endian numbering, bits within an operand are numbered:

**(a)** From least to most significant bit, starting at 0

**(b)** From least to most significant bit, starting at 1

**(c)** From most to least significant bit, starting at 0

**(d)** From most to least significant bit, starting at 1


## 5.18
If the first element of a one-dimensional array is located in memory at address 100, what will be the address of the second element if the array contains:

**(a)** `chars`

**(b)** `short ints`

**(c)** `long ints`

**(d)** `long long ints`


## 5.19
Which of the following registers of the ARM Cortex-M3 are modified during the fetch phase of the fetch-execute cycle? (Circle all that apply.)
- [ ] SP
- [ ] PC
- [ ] LR
- [ ] PSW


## 5.20
Which of the following can the Cortex-M3 can access in a memory cycle? (Circle all that apply.)
- [ ] A single byte
- [ ] A half word
- [ ] A word
- [ ] A double word


## 5.21
In general, the Cortex-M3 processor uses:
**(a)** A 1-operand instruction format
**(b)** A 2-operand instruction format
**(c)** A 3-operand instruction format


## 5.22
 Which of the follwing operand types can be used a s the left-most operand of an instrucion in the ARM Cortex-M3 processor? (Cirlce all that apply.)
- [ ] A memory location
- [ ] A constant
- [ ] An I/O port
- [ ] A register


## 5.23
What is the fewest number of Cortex-M3 instructions required to increment a memory location?


## 5.24
What is the fewest number of Cortex-M3 instructions required to set a single bit in a memory

**(a)** Without bit-banding

**(b)** With bit-banding


## 5.25
What address in the bit-band alias of the Cortex-M3 corresponds to bit 7 of the word at address $$2004066\text{C}_{16}$$?


## 5.26
What address in the bit-band region of the Cortex-M3 contains the bit that corresponds to word address $$22001234_{16}$$ in the bit-band alias?


## 5.27
Which of the following are correct? In assembly language, the “value” represented b an identifier used as a label on a memory location that contains data is:

**(a)** The contents of the memory location

**(b)** The address of the memory location

**(c)** Determined at execution time

**(d)** Determined during pass 1 of the assembler 	

**(e)** Determined during pass 2 of the assembler 


## 5.28
When is the opcode portion of the binary representation of an instruction filled in during assembly?

**(a)** During pass 1 of the assembler

**(b)** During pass 1 of the assembler

**(c)** During program execution

